# OPNFV-Fenix

This spec describes a Fenix plugin for rolling upgrades in Tacker

## Problem description
For Host upgrade or maintenance, administrator needs to migrate the services running on the host, or provides services through a redundancy model such as ACT-STB. In order to do this, interworking with MANO such as Tacker, which manages the life cycle of VNF, is essential. Fenix project suggested the procedure to work with MANO for maintenance/upgrade [1]. With Fenix, tacker can support maintenance procedure without a service stop. In addition, if VNF provider supports VNF upgrade/maintenance, it also supported in this feature. Therefore, this feature helps the maintenance/upgrade procedure for Host maintenance/upgrade with Fenix. This blueprint is proposed Host maintenance/upgrade mode by leveraging Fenix(rolling infrastructure maintenance, upgrade and scaling).

## Proposed change
The scope of this spec focuses on:

* Designing a Fenix Plugin for VNF Maintenance. Whereby, an VNF Maintenance driver is designed to collect events triggered by the Ceilometer/aodh. In this spec, the VNF Maintenance driver subscribes event from ceilometer /AODH with ‘maintenance.planned’
* Defining maintenance policies using the TOSCA Policy format.

## Maintenance Procedure
When VNF is created using VNFD, VNF generates ‘Maintenance URL’ to register event to AODH. Then, when the user requests maintenance, the Notification message generated by Fenix Engine is delivered to ADOH and the event occurs. When an event occurs, Tacker performes the action (e.g., VNF reinstantiation) requested from the Fenix engine to the Tacker via Tacker-plugin.

Maintenance procedure can be divided into two cases.

1. VNF is impacted due to the infrastructure (host) maintenance or upgrade and might need to scale down VNF during the operation. Upgrading the VNF is also possible at the same.
2. VNF is impacted due to the infrastructure (host) maintenance or upgrade. Upgrading the VNF is also possible at the same.
